So we want to actually separate permissions in our application.
And for this we are going to be using middleware.
OK.
So we said middleware a few It's us.
So they're going to feuds are what actions a user can take or not.
So would create a new middleware with a Ph.D. or a sun make middleware come on.
OK.
And the name of this is going to be I mean middleware.
So middleware created successfully and we'll go into all of our obdurately CTP and the non-middle whether
it's free.
We have an admin of PH B-class that was created for us.
So this middleware is very simple handle on incoming requests.
So we receive an incoming request and returned the next request.
OK.
So if we apply these middleware right now is going to receive the request and tell it to go to the next.
OK so permitted but now what we want to do right here we check if the authenticated user has permissions
to access a particular routes.
And if that user doesn't have what we're going to read Sunday use a bike and tell him you do not have
permissions.
So this is our middleware.
It's simple class.
And when we said that we registered with our now and we'll be able to use it in our application.
So let's set up the way.
So we'll would see if we can get the authenticated user using our off right here.
So let's use that of class.
So it's a use of right here.
So even the authenticates a user would say admin because we have that and Millfield.
So if it's true then we'll be able to return the next request.
But Whitehill want to check if it's not true.
OK.
See if the authenticated user is not an administrator then we'll set a session and flash.
And this is going to be on in full.
Remember we have that set up already and we'll see you do not have permissions to perform this action.
OK.
So if the user is not an administrator said this session and return a user somewhere so return the user
back to where ever he's coming from.
And that's all about a metre away.
But next we need to register these middleware where we registar middleware.
Remember in can now that Ph be.
And where are we going to stop this.
So the applications would middleware groups.
We're not going to do that there.
And this is a global middleware for all requests and then going to go down and what are we going to
do is right here.
So these middleware may be assigned to groups or used individually.
So we're going to stay right here.
So I would say this is going to be the main middleware and that admin middleware is found in our app
HGP direct directory and middleware directory and the name was admin.
And we specified the specific class right there.
OK.
So in our app a.p middleware we have the admin the HP and that's basically just this namespace right
here.
OK.
So we've registered the middle where we should be able to use it.
Let's head over to our adult blade web ph be and use this middleware.
So first of all right here we have a route what we can do is change a middleware meathook right here
and would say admin.
OK.
So this route where we change a user's permissions to administrates or would only be accessed by a user
that is an administrator.
OK so now Emily is not an administrator.
Sure she's going to try to make herself an administrator.
And let's see if she succeeds that's from our admin the discussion does not exist.
And that's because we didn't imports it.
So let's use that.
So use session.
OK so you see I truly.
That's routes that middle where it was caught because we registered the middle where are we giving the
name right here.
OK.
So that was actually called Let's go back and refresh and let's make a million.
I mean and you see I'm redirected back and this and I received a message you do not have permissions
to perform this action.
How cool is that.
OK.
So he's she's not an administrator so we can't she can actually make anybody an administrator.
So we're going to add such to this middleware somewhere else.
Ok I'll show you that in a moment.
So good so I use this controller and what creates the constructs for this controller right here.
So it's a public function on what constructs and would inject that middleware right there.
So I would say this middleware and I would say admin.
So any methods on this controller will not actually be assessed by any user that is not an administrator.
So let's go to our home page.
So right here in our home page.
And now let's try to access the use speech.
You do not have perfect permissions to perform this action.
How cool is that.
So Emily is not an administrator so she can't even access the page where we see users.
She can't even create a user.
She can do nothing of any of this.
My thoughts are on this controller.
So that's how we use our middleware and what we can additionally do is actually not display these routes
if the user is not an administrator.
So let's go to our app the blade the HP and do that.
So right here we have users a new user they're going to see if auth user admin and if so if the authenticated
user admin FUD is true then we'll be able to see those routes.
OK so right now Emily is not authenticates at all.
All right now Emily is not an administrator.
So those fields disappear.
But let me logout and logging with my own accounts.
So right now I'm going to have my accounts and remember I am default administrator Opsahl log in right
there and I think OK I'm supposed to be that me not that com.
OK plug in and I'm locked in.
Right there you see I can see the use of speech.
And they can make Emily an administrator and I can log out and log in with Emily's profile.
So Emily and I will log in and right here everything looks great.
So Emily is an administrator and she can go ahead and see us and she can see herself and remove her
permissions.
But if you permission is done for obviously OK.
So everything looks great.
Let's do a little recap so we create an admin middleware using our make middleware command and middleware
as simply filters.
So for each request we are going to handle an incoming request and we're going to do something.
First of all we check the authenticates user at that moment is the user an administrator so if not sets
a session and see you do not have permissions and redirect the user back to wherever he's coming from
then if this off check fails it's going to reach on next.
So the next request is going to be passed.
OK.
So now in our users control we are using our first of all in our candidate PH BE up as Tippecanoe.
We've registered that middleware and we called it admin right here.
OK.
So after that we actually used middleware controllers.
So in the constructor we inject said the middleware idea and said that every single thought on this
controller should be authenticated by the way before being performed.
And right there we see it working perfectly.
So thank you for watching and see you in the next video.